## Machine Learning Project

Machine learning is an area that enterprises are increasingly investing in or identifying as a potential area of growth. There are many reasons enterprises invest in machine learning, from being able to leverage data to find insights about their customers to making processes more efficient. In this module we will explore the ML algorithms and the stages a data scientist goes through to process a data to derive insights and predict outcomes. Many of the steps needed to build a machine learning model are reiterated and modified until data scientists are satisfied with the model performance. This process requires a great deal of data exploration, visualization and experimentation as each step must be explored. The steps involved are given in the following subsection:

### Data access and collection

The first step to a machine learning problem is accessing the data. Typically, data scientists will obtain the data for the business problems they are working on by querying the databases where their companies store their data. In addition, there is a lot of value in unstructured datasets that do not fit well into a relational database (e.g. logs, raw texts, images, videos, etc.). These datasets are heavily processed via Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) pipelines written by data engineers and data scientists. These datasets either reside in a data lake or in a database (either relational or not). When data scientists do not have the data needed to solve their problems, they can get the data by scraping data from websites, purchasing data from data providers or collecting the data from surveys, clickstream data, sensors, cameras, etc.

### Data preparation and exploration

After getting the data, data scientists have to prepare the raw data, perform data exploration, visualize data, transform data and possibly repeat the steps until it’s ready to use for modeling. Data preparation is cleansing and processing raw data before analysis. Before building any machine learning model, data scientists need to understand the available data. Raw data can be messy, duplicated or inaccurate. Data scientists explore the data available to them, then cleanse the data by identifying corrupt, inaccurate and incomplete data and replacing or deleting it. In addition, data scientists need to determine if the data has labels or not. For example, if you have a series of images and you want to develop a detection model to determine whether there is a car in the image, you need to have a set of images labeled whether there is a car in them and most likely need bounding boxes around the cars in the images. If the images lack labels, data scientists will have to label them. There are open source tools and commercial vendors that provide platforms for data labeling, as well as human labelers for hire. After data is cleansed, data scientists explore the features (or the variables) in their dataset, identify any relationship between the features transformations. There are various tools data scientists can use for exploratory data analysis in open source libraries and analytics/data science platforms. A tool that performs statistical analysis of the dataset and creates data visualizations to generate plots of the features is useful in this step.

### Model build and train

Model build consists of choosing the correct machine learning models to solve the problems and features that go into the models. In the first step of model build, data scientists need to decide what might be the appropriate machine learning model to solve the problem. There are two main types of machine learning models: supervised and unsupervised. Supervised learning involves modeling a set of input data to an output or a label. Classification and regression are supervised learning problems. Unsupervised learning involves modeling a set of input data without a label. For example, customer segmentation is an unsupervised learning problem. You do not know a priori what customer segment a customer belongs to. The segment will be assigned by the model.

### Model evaluation

There are many open source tools that help data scientists calculate the metrics for evaluating machine learning models and help them visualize the metrics (e.g., AUC-ROC curve, gain and lift charts.) When evaluating machine learning models, data scientists need to decide which ROC curve metrics are important for the business problem they are trying to solve.
